# Association-rules
Association rules aim to provide a decision support to a process worker in a form of task sets recommended based on the incoming ticket. The association rules are applied using the R arules package to determine possible sets of task types and subtypes (rule body) based on various contextual information in the rule head: (i) ticket type, (ii) ticket type and Decision-Making Logic (DML) of the ticket activity, (iii) ticket type, DML, and Business Sentiment. For the details of extraction of the information regarding ticket / task types and subtypes, see the repository https://github.com/IT-Tickets-Text-Analytics/Tasks-Typology, for DML https://github.com/IT-Tickets-Text-Analytics/Decision-Making-Logic-Taxonomy, for Business Sentiment https://github.com/IT-Tickets-Text-Analytics/Business-Sentiment.  

This repository contains the following files: 

(1) R file containing the implementation of association rules (ARules.R). As an input, it requires the csv.-formatted file with the following columns: "Ticket ID" (e.g., ID7363526373), "Ticket type" (e.g., "Ticket: Installation"), and "Task type: subtype" (e.g., "Implementation: Installation"). The latter column is based on the maximum number of tasks per ticket in the dataset. E.g., the maximum number of tasks one ticket contains is 10 in the given dataset, hence, 10 "Task type: subtype" columns. The "Ticket type" column was prepared in three different formats according to the three context layers: (i) ticket type only (e.g., "Ticket: Installation"), (ii) ticket type enriched with DML (e.g., "Ticket: Installation (routine)"), (iii) ticket type enriched with DML and Business Sentiment (e.g., "Ticket: Installation (routine, low)").  

(2) Examples of the output files according to the three formats of the "Ticket type" column containing the following columns "rules", "support", "confidence", "lift": (i) TicketType_Tasks.xlsx with the rules based on the ticket type only, (ii) TicketType_DML_Tasks.xlsx with the rules based on the ticket type and DML, (iii) TicketType_DML_BS_Tasks.xlsx with the rules based on ticket type, DML, and Business Sentiment.  
